Friends, we have seen the basic uses of Grip command in our previous video,
and here we are working with advanced or uses often grep command.
Let me start that.
Only we know the syntax of Grip command that is simply grip options,
string or pattern, then file or files.
So if you want to write number of files on multiple files,
then you had to write them with spaces.
That's fine.
And we explain about this grep command by using basic options.
On here we are working with advanced options.
Let me take one by one.
The very first one is hyphen.
Hyphen e. F means it takes such a string or a pattern from a file.
Don't worry about pattern,
we'll discuss in this video.
So simply iPhone f takes a sub string from a file.
Let me explain this with an example.
Suppose I'm searching for line in a file called test.txt,
then you are Grep command will display the lines
from your test.txt which are having line string.
Yes, you are getting. Now, instead of writing you are such a string on your command line.
You can also store that India, fine.
Now let me write V,
I might such strings,
you can take any file name and in this I am writing line. No, let me save this.
And let me run. So here I am running grip
with iPhone5 option by providing your filename in which we have is such a string.
Then in which you want to look that finally,
now see there is an either here or here,
the output is same.
So simply hyphen IAAF is useful to fetch,
to pick us such a string from a file.
And here we have one more advantage.
You can provide multiple such strings in the file,
but one per line.
In one line you had to write first,
satisfying, then one more.
Then if you want write one moody S, We can write.
So as of now, how given three such strings in your file?
And if I run Grip command with iPhone5 option by avoiding this file name,
then you are Grip command will take such strings from this file.
So we have three strings.
Now you're Grip command.
We'll look for those three strings in it text to file.
If there is a match 40 watts strings,
then you will get the lines from your file. That's it.
Suppose if I write one more,
Let's say Python Shell and Python Shell strings are not present in our test.txt.
That's why there is no match.
If there is a match, you will get for that.
I mean, you will get the lines for that.
That's it.
Now, instead of writing such strings in your file,
you can also directly excluded from your command line by using grip hyphen e option.
Hyphen e, your first Such string, or next one.
Likewise, you can provide any number of such strings.
Then finally, in which file you want to look that file name you have to write,
not to say there is a.
So instead of writing your search strings in the file with iPhone year option,
you can execute multiple strings.
Now, instead of writing hyphen e for multiple such strings,
I can simplify this regular expression.
I'm in this expression.
In this way, grip hyphen e,
line pipeline, a bot pipeline by biplane shell pipeline.
If you want, write one more thing, Python.
Close the petitions, then write
the file limb in which you want to look for all these strings.
Be clear, I have written a file,
I have a linear pipeline symbol.
Not the meaning for this pipeline, 0s.
This is one string, these separate string.
So you are having 12345 such strings.
So you're grep command will look for these five strings in a given file.
If there is a match for your string,
it will do the lanes in which that string is that.
But be clear, we have to use hyphen capital E. If you don't want to use hyphen capital,
you had to run in this way.
This is somewhat lengthy, right?
Again, again, we are using hyphen e option.
Yes, I simplified that.
Now here, this is called a pattern.
See basically pattern is also a string,
but pattern represents more than one strings.
Now this entire thing is a string,
but it is representing line, string,
string, string, string, Python, string.
So phi such strings are there in this string.
So this is a pattern.
So simply pattern is a string and it represents more than one string.
And to execute your patterns in your Grip command,
you how to use hyphen capitally option friends from now onwards,
please follow this syntax for your clip command.
Simply grep hyphen capitally.
Just take it as a default option,
then remaining what optional.
So these options are from here.
And now forget about iPhone5 honey and iPhone capitally.
Now use this as your default syntax for Grep command.
Maybe sometimes you may use iPhone5 optional.
So you can take simply gripped by 4f and you can provide
your search strings in the file and then Eva file or files,
but this is the mostly used one in your realtime.
So please do follow this syntax for your grep command.
It's better one, fine.
Now, if you want to use the grep command with the patterns,
you how to know how to create a pattern.
As I've know how create a pattern with pipeline so that you are,
this string is representing,
this pattern is representing five SO2 strings.
So likewise we whoa,
I mean like pipes, a pipe symbol.
We have different types of symbols to a create a pattern.
Now let me go with one-by-one.
So by completion of this rules,
you can understand how to create a patterns effectively.
So the very first one already we have seen pipeline symbol.
So it matches for X-ray RPQ.
You can take any strings,
any number of strings,
then anchor or kept symbol with some string.
Then that is matches for the lines which are starting with X, Y, Zed.
Suppose if you observe in your Finally how let me take your file first.
Different things. Now. I want
to bring to the lines friends
from now onwards I will take grip hyphen capitally than in quotations.
I'm taking kept symbol.
Suppose without cap, suppose you've curated this.
Let me write this line.
I will do one thing was I will admit my file.
I will write down some extra lines so that he can it must start.
Somewhere here I am writing this fossil,
see the content of your file.
So there is a here and here.
Now, initially I'm looking for friends from no adverse.
Please don't forget to take hyphen capitally.
Simply, I'm I'm writing THE Yes in the file.
I'll see that isn't. So wherever this is there,
you are getting all those lines.
But I want to print the lines which are starting with this, then caps M.
Now this is very, very useful.
So in our course superbly also,
we use somewhere to grip the port number of HTTPD.
So actually suppose, let me do it in this way.
Grip, hyphen e.
I'm taking listen.
Then in a file called in this,
I am looking for a reason.
See, you are getting some unknown lengths.
But if you observe you are required line is this one.
And anyway, that line is starting exactly with capitals,
starting with the listen.
And these lines are not starting with the reason.
That's the reason I'm taking here cap symbols so that the meaning for that
is such the lanes which are starting exactly with Alizarin knots it.
So that is that one page of cap symbol.
Then second $1, some string
with the dollar matches for the lines which are ending with x,
y, z integrals starting.
You can also search the lines which are ending with a particular string.
So let me take it thing with yeah,
this only you can take this here and here is demo.
So previously we look for this,
which is they're starting. Now.
First let me go and take that one.
And you are getting this line.
Now instead of starting,
I want to print the lines.
I want to match the lanes which are having this at
the end weekly or I'm writing at the end of your Such a string.
That's it.
Then if we club these two cap on dollar than you are going to get empty lines.
So that will match for empty lines, very,
very useful in your sed command.
Also, this syntax.
Now simply, if you observe your file,
you are having some empty line here.
Now, if i such in this way,
starting with the cap and ending with a dollar,
that means the meaningful that is,
match for empty lines.
Yes, there is a one empty line you are getting back.
So very, very useful in your set command as well.
Fine.
Next thing, slash to remove the special purpose of any symbol,
not only your cap or dollar.
So we are having some more special symbols.
To remove that purpose, we can use slash.
Suppose I want to match the lines which are having kept symbol.
Suppose directly if I do grip hyphen e,
cap symbol, then test.txt and see the result.
You are getting all lines,
but I don't want to print all the lines.
I want to print a line which is having kept symbol.
Basically cap means we knows with the starting.
But I want to remove that special purpose,
then simply use slash before you were symbol so that see there is a,
now the meaning for these is printed the lines which are having kept symbol,
not the purpose of cap,
basic purpose of your copies.
Starting with that, whatever the string you are mentioning.
Not to remove that purpose,
we have to use slash.
Not only for their cap,
you can also use for dollar as well.
In case if knowledge is there somewhere in your file,
then.means matches any one character.
Say now directly if I used a dot, you will get confused.
For C, the result. You can't understand by directly for you,
simply dot you're getting all the matches.
So dot any character.
That's why all characters are matching.
Now let me do one thing.
I want do printed the strings,
which are starting with let say p,
then after the two characters, then yes.
Now the meaning for disease, be clear.
You are looking for a string which is starting with a t and
ending with the S. In between that you may how any two characters,
that is the meaning of dot.means any character.
Now I used two dots.
Policy there isn't. Here, t is there,
and ending ES is there between that two characters.
Those two characters may be any characters,
not only headshot I,
any, any two characters.
That's it turns the uses of dot.
And if you want to match dot width dot,
then you have to use Slashdot.
Suppose if you observe your file.
So here we are. Now I want to match the lines which are having dots.
For some lines you don't have dark for some lines you are having
bought basically.me, any one character.
But I want to match dot with dot only,
then use again slash.
Now first remote days, yeah,
see Slashdot now Match dot with a only that is the meaning.
Be clear on this.
Now you are printing the lines which are having dots.
It is very, very important.
Fine.
Next slash b matches the empty string at the edge of a word.
So it may be on right side or left side of your work.
Suppose
Let me suppose I want to look for the string called line.
String called line in a file for us to see the output line.
Lines, but offer lanes actually sought after LN S, is there?
Even though yes. Is there you are not giving any condition
just simply such the lines which are having simply line.
But now bring to the lines which are having line and at the end some space.
Now see that you are not getting line's
not only that printed the lines which are having lane,
but before lane, you should have some.
That is my requirement.
Now see the output.
There is a space that is why this is a matching for your pattern.
There is a space before that matching for your pattern.
No, I want to look for a string which is having space at the starting and the ending,
then you have to mention slash b on both sides of your string.
Nausea that is, now instead of using in this way slash b starting and ending,
this is nothing but exactly or looking for a word,
you can use no hyphen W option.
We have already basic option W,
mostly that is, sorry.
I have taken B as well.
Hyphen e, w, we know exact word match.
Yes, you are getting. So instead of using
slash b at the starting and ending in case if this is your situation,
non-linear write in this way, you can use,
you can club hyphen W option.
That's right.
Next one, question mark.
Question mark means the preceding character is optional and will be matched at most once.
Means I will explain with an example so that it can understand.
Suppose if I write the grip hyphen capitally,
then I'm looking for y.
Then let's say, why if I am looking in
such a string facilities or you are getting these two lines.
But in my case,
ye fees optional, it may or may not.
If he's optional, it may or may not be.
In that case, you have to write question mark.
The meaningful that is,
the preceding character means EF.
Ef Maybe Juno times or one time.
No, see that is a that also matching this line.
Here we are not there.
No problem.
Question mark means genotypes are one times.
So your pattern will represent why.
Yes, that's it.
That's why there is a match.
So question mark means 0 times so DCF or at least one time,
maximum one time, not at least max one time.
So that's arisen. See the highlighted part.
That is matching than stock.
The preceding territory will be matched with 0 or more times, not only one time.
Suppose if we take question mark,
it will match only for one time.
But if I take star,
it will search for juror banks on more than one time.
Now see there is a UAV,
is there more times?
Yes, it is. Matching star means any number of
times to these entities there are maybe 0 times.
That's why they're getting this many matchings.
Let's be clear. Why is only one time.
But this star is applicable only 4f character.
You have maybe Juno times.
That's why you are getting this one.
Y d rho times of f,
and you have maybe one or more times.
But if you observe here this many number of times is that star
means any number of times, including 0.
Now plus, plus means minimum,
one, maximum and a number of times.
Now suppose if I take simply UFO plus after VIII usual now at least a year,
at least one time, yes.
But maximum number of times.
Guys first tried to London uses of each and every symbol in your patterns.
Then we will see some practice as well anyway,
this is also some somewhat simple practices with you.
What symbols?
Then in square brackets?
Suppose if i write x, y, z,
then it matches for the lines which are having either x or y or z.
Suppose, suppose we are doing in this way.
Let me write that.
Sorry. Grip.
Yeah, first let me take you are fine.
Now I'm looking for capital T, small t.
Capital T small t.
Then something like EF are white in a given string.
The same thing you can also write in this way instead of pipelines in battle.
And this is only for single character right?
Inside of square brackets you write any number of characters.
The meaning for that is it is looking for either T or capital T,
or small F or capital.
Why not say anyone of that? That's it.
Now, if I, if I write something like yay hyphen D,
Suppose if you want to set to the character or string,
either a or b or c or d.
Generally we will write in this way.
I mean you have two ways.
One is you can use biplane symbol.
Suppose E, a or B,
or C or D,
or E, Something like that in a given file.
Now, instead of that,
we can also use square brackets.
This is a valid one.
Both will give the same result.
And even instead of writing this ABCDEF, whenever if you are,
characters are in sequence,
then you can write simply NPV.
That's simply not true.
You're going at 80, you have ADF means either ERB,
RC, RD, Something like that.
Next year a to D is two j.
Suppose if you want to look ABCD,
then PQR, then first of all,
let me write that grip.
Capital E, either a or B or C or D,
And then either p or q or r.
Then in a file.
Once again, I am writing instead of biplane symbol,
you can use square brackets.
And if you observe here AB and CD are in sequence and the PQ or also in sequence.
Now in that case,
you can do in this way a to D, then P2.
Ok, let's say both are giving same result object.
Then 41 square brackets.
If you start with cap,
then you are looking for a lane which is
starting with either a or b or c, something like that.
Let suppose we have a file called test.txt.
And first I am looking for x or y,
printed the lines which are having either x or y from your file.
Yes, you are getting the output.
Now if I play before this square brackets,
if I play caps in ML,
the meaningful that is printed,
the lines which are starting with either X or Y.
Yes.
Now this line is keeping because this line is not starting with either XOR Y.
Fine.
Now, if I apply this cap symbol inside of square brackets,
then the meaning will get changed.
So without kept symbol,
if I write in square brackets x,
y, the meaning for the grep command will look for either x or y.
But if I write cap symbol,
Grip command will look for other than you are x and y.
Now c, that is a.
That's the reason why.
And they are not highlighting actually are
Grep command is looking for other than these two characters.
That's why remaining characters or highlighting.
Fine. Then next one is curly braces in here.
3n means number.
The preceding string match exactly yen times.
Let me explain this so that they can understand.
Suppose I am looking for drip,
hyphen e x in a given file.
Maybe any fight right? Now, I'm looking for x four times.
Yes, there is a match.
And instead of writing f of four times simply you can do,
you have then curly braces for now the meaning is same.
If you write in this way,
the meaning is 0x after x,
x0 f easy fees four times.
That's a shortcut for this string representation, this pattern representation.
That's it.
Now, let me such with the three.
So here, three times of your phase there immediately offerings here
also three times of your phase there immediately after you what x?
Now what I'm doing is three comma four also I am writing.
You are looking for yes,
maybe three times or four times.
That's the reason you are getting 0x,
0x F3 times xy four times.
So here we have four times,
is there, that's why you're getting.
But now I'm playing one more condition at the yen.
I'm writing slash b.
Slash b means after you or match,
there should be a space.
If you observe in these two matches,
EX EF three times.
So three comma four means EF maybe three times,
4f maybe four times.
But after three or four times there should be a space. Just now we have given.
So here's bases there,
but here there is no space dust.
That's why this match will keep.
Only this match will see there is a, that's it.
So you're gonna having, yeah, one more thing.
Suppose if i write grep hyphen e x EF,
it's curly brace two comma, the meaningful disease.
Each year for two times minimum but maximum number of times.
C.
That is a sorry,
I did not provide a filename.
So there is a minimum 2times C here.
Instead of matching two times, three times is there.
That's why it will always look for maximum value theta,
maximum value of f,
I mean maximum number of times E. So that is the meaning of two comma.
That's fine.
But we're also having some shortcuts for some characters.
Suppose, if I want to look the lines which are having a visit,
then simply write grip hyphen Lee.
But here you have to write two square brackets,
then simply does it.
Then square brackets, then you are required to find.
So it will print the the lanes which are having it visit.
Now instead of that, I want to print the,
the lines which are having uppercase character, uppercase alphabet,
then simply write upper,
lower printer, the lanes which are having lower case alphabet not checked.
So like ways we are having different symbols.
So blank space, alphanumeric,
maybe alpha, pneumonic means alphabets off.
Let me write that.
Number's digits.
See that?
Logic.